Move community_topics_workflow to docs.ansible.com (#1028)
ansible/ansible-documentation: docs/docsite/rst/community/steering/community_topics_workflow.rst

   For other changes, create a `community topic <https://forum.ansible.com/new-topic?category=project&tags=community-wg>`_ to discuss them.
   (Creating a draft PR for this file and mentioning it in the community topic is also OK.)

.. _community_topics_workflow:

Community topics workflow
=========================

Overview
--------

> This document describes the Ansible Community Topics workflow (hereinafter Workflow) to provide guidance on successful resolving topics in the asynchronous way.

Reviewer: Interesting, `hereinafter` really seems to be a word. I haven't seen this yet anywhere else, though. I think it's quite uncommon. Maybe simply `hereafter [just] Workflow` or `following [just] Workflow` or something similar?

Reviewer 2: There's no reallneed here for the hereinafter clause.  As for the capitalization of Community Topics... @oraNod has been making a lot of things lowercase instead, what do you think on this one, Don?

Author: Removed hereinafter and capitalization, thanks

> The workflow is a set of actions that need to be done successively within the corresponding time frames.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The workflow is a set of actions that need to be completed in order within the corresponding time frames.
```

.. note::

>   This is a rough scenario and it can vary depending on a topic's complexity and other nuances, for example, when there is a mass agreement up-front.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The following section outlines a generic scenario for a workflow.
  Workflows can vary depending on a topic's complexity and other nuances; for example, when there is a mass agreement from the beginning.
```

Creating a topic
----------------

> Any person can `create a topic <https://forum.ansible.com/new-topic?title=topic%20title&body=topic%20body&category=project&tags=community-wg>`_ tagged with ``community-wg`` under the ``Project Discussions`` category in the `Ansible Forum <https://forum.ansible.com/>`_.

Reviewer 2: Given that the link already has the correct tag, category etc, can we just remove everything else in this sentence?

Author: Deliberately left it as people can be also interested in 1. just taking a look at the topics 2. subscribe to the topics 3. then create a topic after taking a look, etc., so not sure

Author: After taking another look, i think that info is extra to have it here. Replaced the content with a link to another doc.

Preparation stage
-----------------

> * A Committee person checks the topic's content and asks the author/other persons to provide additional information if needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* A Committee person checks the topic's content and asks the author/other persons to provide additional information as needed.
```

> * A Committee person checks the topic's content, asks the author/other persons to provide additional information if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A Committee person checks the topic's content and asks the author/other persons to provide additional information if needed.
```

Discussion stage
----------------

> * The discussion by default happens asynchronously in the topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* By default, the discussion happens asynchronously in the topic.
```

  * A :ref:`steering committee <steering_responsibilities>` member can tag the forum post with ``community-wg-nextmtg`` to put it on the synchronous meeting agenda.

Voting stage
------------

The Committee person:

> * Depending on the topic's complexity, 1-2 weeks after the discussion was opened, formulates vote options based on the prior discussion and gives participants reasonable amount of time to propose changes to the options (no longer than a week).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Formulates vote options based on the prior discussion and gives participants up to one week to propose changes to the options. This step takes place one to two weeks after the discussion was opened, depending on the complexity of the topic.
```

> * Summarizes the options in a comment and also establishes a date when the vote begins and ends if there are no objections about the options.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Summarizes the options in a comment and establishes a dates for the vote to begin if there are no objections to the options.
```

> * In the vote date, starts the vote and establishes its end date, which is $CURRENT_DATE plus:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Starts the vote on the beginning date and establishes an end date, which is $CURRENT_DATE plus:
```

  * 7 days: simple cases

>   * 14 days: should not be more than that

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * 14 days: maximum vote length
```

>   * 21 days: only used in cases like common holiday seasons when the majority of the Committee out of participation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * 21 days: only used in exceptional cases such as holiday seasons when the majority of the Committee are not able to participate in the vote
```

* Labels the topic with the ``active-vote`` tag.
* Adds ``[Vote ends on $YYYY-MM-DD]`` to the beginning of the topic's description.

The vote always consists of two polls: one for the Steering Committee, one for everyone else. To create a vote in a topic:

  * Create a new post in the topic.
  * Click the ``gear`` button in the composer and select ``Build Poll``.
  * Click the ``gear`` in the ``Poll Builder`` for advanced mode.
  * Set up the options (generally this will be ``Single Choice`` but other poll types can be used).
  * Title it "Steering Committee vote" and ``Limit voting`` to the ``@SteeringCommittee``.
  * Do NOT set the close date because this cannot be changed later.

>   * Results should be ``Always Visible`` unless there is some good reason for the SC votes not to be public.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * Results should be ``Always Visible`` unless there is a good reason for the SC votes not to be public.
```

  * Submit the poll (the BBcode will appear in the post):

>   * Repeat the above for the second poll:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * Repeat the above steps for the second poll:
```

    * Title should be "Community vote".
    * No group limitation.

Voting result stage
-------------------

> The next day after the last day of the vote, the Committee person:

Reviewer 3: Is this the day after the last day or two days after the last day?

Author: Let's simplify. We actually did this as i changed it

* Closes the polls if the :ref:`quorum<community_topics_workflow>` is reached, otherwise prolongs the polls.
* Removes the ``active-vote`` tag.

> * Add a comment that the vote ended.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Adds a comment that the vote has ended.
```

* Announces the vote result and the final decision in the :ref:`Bullhorn <bullhorn>`.

Implementation stage
--------------------

No further action required
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Committee person:

* Merges an associated pull request if exists.
* Adds the ``resolved`` tag.

Further actions required
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Committee person:

* Assigns a person responsible for performing the actions by mentioning them in a comment.
* Adds the ``being-implemented`` tag to the topic.

After the actions are done, the assignee:

* Comments on the topic that the work is done.
* Removes the ``being-implemented`` tag.
* Adds the ``implemented`` and ``resolved`` tags.

Package-release related actions required
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If the topic implies actions related to the future Ansible community package releases (for example, a collection exclusion), the Committee person/assignee:

* Adds the ``scheduled-for-future-release`` tag to the topic.
* Checks if there is a corresponding milestone in the `ansible-build-data <https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data/milestones>`_ repository.

  * If there is no milestone, the person creates it.

> * Creates an issue in ansible-build-data that references the topic and adds it to the milestone.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Creates an issue in ``ansible-build-data`` that references the topic and adds it to the milestone.
```

* After it is implemented, adds the ``implemented`` and ``resolved`` tags.

Tools
-----

> There are a few `scripts <https://github.com/ansible-community/community-topics/tree/main/scripts>`_ that can be used to create Ansible community announcements on Bullhorn and similar.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are a few `scripts <https://github.com/ansible-community/community-topics/tree/main/scripts>`_ that can be used to create Ansible community announcements on the Bullhorn and similar locations.
```

The workflow is a set of actions that need to be completed in order within the corresponding time frames.

.. note::

  The following section outlines a generic scenario for a workflow.
  Workflows can vary depending on a topic's complexity and other nuances; for example, when there is a mass agreement from the beginning.

Creating a topic
----------------

Any person can :ref:`create a community topic<creating_community_topic>`.

Preparation stage
-----------------

* A Committee person checks the topic's content and asks the author/other persons to provide additional information as needed.

Discussion stage
----------------

* By default, the discussion happens asynchronously in the topic.

  * A :ref:`steering committee <steering_responsibilities>` member can tag the forum post with ``community-wg-nextmtg`` to put it on the synchronous meeting agenda.

Voting stage
------------

The Committee person:

* Formulates vote options based on the prior discussion and gives participants up to one week to propose changes to the options. This step takes place one to two weeks after the discussion was opened, depending on the complexity of the topic.

> * Summarizes the options in a comment and establishes a dates for the vote to begin if there are no objections to the options.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Summarizes the options in a comment and establishes a date for the vote to begin if there are no objections to the options.
```
